cranelift/docs/index.md, before:

# Cranelift Documentation

## Miscellaneous documentation pages:

 - [Cranelift IR](ir.md)
   Cranelift IR is the data structure that most of the compiler operates on.

 - [Testing Cranelift](testing.md)
   This page documents Cranelift's testing frameworks.

 - [Cranelift compared to LLVM](compare-llvm.md)
   LLVM and Cranelift have similarities and differences.

 - [Cranelift's register allocator](regalloc.md)
   This page document Cranelift's current register allocator.

## Cranelift crate documentation:

 - [cranelift](https://docs.rs/cranelift)
    This is an umbrella crate that re-exports the codegen and frontend crates,
    to make them easier to use.

 - [cranelift-codegen](https://docs.rs/cranelift-codegen)
    This is the core code generator crate. It takes Cranelift IR as input
    and emits encoded machine instructions, along with symbolic relocations,
    as output.

 - [cranelift-codegen-meta](https://docs.rs/cranelift-codegen-meta)
    This crate contains the meta-language utilities and descriptions used by the
    code generator.

 - [cranelift-wasm](https://docs.rs/cranelift-wasm)
    This crate translates WebAssembly code into Cranelift IR.

 - [cranelift-frontend](https://docs.rs/cranelift-frontend)
    This crate provides utilities for translating code into Cranelift IR.

 - [cranelift-native](https://docs.rs/cranelift-native)
    This crate performs auto-detection of the host, allowing Cranelift to
    generate code optimized for the machine it's running on.

 - [cranelift-reader](https://docs.rs/cranelift-reader)
    This crate translates from Cranelift IR's text format into Cranelift IR
    in in-memory data structures.

 - [cranelift-module](https://docs.rs/cranelift-module)
    This crate manages compiling multiple functions and data objects
    together.

 - [cranelift-object](https://docs.rs/cranelift-object)
    This crate provides a object-based backend for `cranelift-module`, which
    emits native object files using the
    `object <https://github.com/gimli-rs/object>`_ library.

 - [cranelift-jit](https://docs.rs/cranelift-jit)
    This crate provides a JIT backend for `cranelift-module`, which
    emits code and data into memory.

Commit message:

Add ISLE reference documentation.
This documentation provides details for all of the ISLE language
features, and detailed rationale for why many of them are designed in
the way that they are. It is hopefully both a reasonable tutorial and
reference for someone looking to understand the DSL.

Note that this documentation is separate from and orthogonal to the
work to document the Cranelift bindings and integration work that
@fitzgen has covered well in #3556. This document can link to that one
and vice-versa once they are both in-tree.

cranelift/docs/index.md, after:

# Cranelift Documentation

## Miscellaneous documentation pages:

 - [Cranelift IR](ir.md)
   Cranelift IR is the data structure that most of the compiler operates on.

 - [Testing Cranelift](testing.md)
   This page documents Cranelift's testing frameworks.

 - [Cranelift compared to LLVM](compare-llvm.md)
   LLVM and Cranelift have similarities and differences.

 - [Cranelift's register allocator](regalloc.md)
   This page document Cranelift's current register allocator.
   
 - [ISLE](isle.md)
   This page documents the domain-specific language (DSL), ISLE, that
   we use to define instruction-lowering patterns.

## Cranelift crate documentation:

 - [cranelift](https://docs.rs/cranelift)
    This is an umbrella crate that re-exports the codegen and frontend crates,
    to make them easier to use.

 - [cranelift-codegen](https://docs.rs/cranelift-codegen)
    This is the core code generator crate. It takes Cranelift IR as input
    and emits encoded machine instructions, along with symbolic relocations,
    as output.

 - [cranelift-codegen-meta](https://docs.rs/cranelift-codegen-meta)
    This crate contains the meta-language utilities and descriptions used by the
    code generator.

 - [cranelift-wasm](https://docs.rs/cranelift-wasm)
    This crate translates WebAssembly code into Cranelift IR.

 - [cranelift-frontend](https://docs.rs/cranelift-frontend)
    This crate provides utilities for translating code into Cranelift IR.

 - [cranelift-native](https://docs.rs/cranelift-native)
    This crate performs auto-detection of the host, allowing Cranelift to
    generate code optimized for the machine it's running on.

 - [cranelift-reader](https://docs.rs/cranelift-reader)
    This crate translates from Cranelift IR's text format into Cranelift IR
    in in-memory data structures.

 - [cranelift-module](https://docs.rs/cranelift-module)
    This crate manages compiling multiple functions and data objects
    together.

 - [cranelift-object](https://docs.rs/cranelift-object)
    This crate provides a object-based backend for `cranelift-module`, which
    emits native object files using the
    `object <https://github.com/gimli-rs/object>`_ library.

 - [cranelift-jit](https://docs.rs/cranelift-jit)
    This crate provides a JIT backend for `cranelift-module`, which
    emits code and data into memory.
