crates/fuzzing/wasm-spec-interpreter/README.md, before:

wasm-spec-interpreter
=====================

This project shows how to use `ocaml-interop` to call into the Wasm spec
interpreter. There are several steps to making this work:
 - building the OCaml Wasm spec interpreter as a static library
 - building a Rust-to-OCaml FFI bridge using `ocaml-interop` and a custom OCaml
   wrapper
 - linking both things into a Rust crate

### Dependencies

This crate only builds in an environment with:
- `make` (the Wasm spec interpreter uses a `Makefile`)
- `ocamlopt`, `ocamlbuild` (available with, e.g., `dnf install ocaml`)
- Linux tools (e.g. `ar`); currently it is easiest to build the static
  libraries in a single environment but this could be fixed in the future (TODO)

Remember to retrieve the Wasm spec submodule:

```
git clone ... --recursive
```

### Build

```
RUSTFLAGS=--cfg=fuzzing cargo build
```

Use `FFI_LIB_DIR=path/to/lib/...` to specify a different location for the static
library (this is mainly for debugging). If the `--cfg=fuzzing` configuration is
not provided, this crate will build successfully but fail at runtime.

### Test

```
RUSTFLAGS=--cfg=fuzzing cargo test
```

Commit message:

fuzz: improve wasm-spec-interpreter documentation, add library path (#4007)
The documentation for the `wasm-spec-interpreter` was not up-to-date,
causing some confusion on non-Ubuntu machines. This change adds the
correct dependencies to install and includes the `libgmp` path for
Fedora by default (i.e., `/lib64`).

crates/fuzzing/wasm-spec-interpreter/README.md, after:

wasm-spec-interpreter
=====================

This project shows how to use `ocaml-interop` to call into the Wasm spec
interpreter. There are several steps to making this work:
 - building the OCaml Wasm spec interpreter as a static library
 - building a Rust-to-OCaml FFI bridge using `ocaml-interop` and a custom OCaml
   wrapper
 - linking both things into a Rust crate

### Dependencies

This crate only builds in an environment with:
- `make` (the Wasm spec interpreter uses a `Makefile`)
- `ocamlopt`, `ocamlbuild` (available with, e.g., `dnf install ocaml`)
- Linux tools (e.g. `ar`); currently it is easiest to build the static
  libraries in a single environment but this could be fixed in the future (TODO)
- `libgmp`, for the OCaml `zarith` package
- `git` is used by `build.rs` to retrieve the repository containing the Wasm
  spec interpreter; it is safe to completely remove `ocaml/spec` to get a new
  copy

### Build

```
cargo build --features build-libinterpret
```

Use `FFI_LIB_DIR=path/to/lib/...` to specify a different location for the static
library (this is mainly for debugging). If the `build-libinterpret` feature is
not provided, this crate will build successfully but fail at runtime.

### Test

```
cargo test --features build-libinterpret
```
