docs/contributing.md, before:

# Contributing

We're excited to work on Wasmtime and/or Cranelift together with you! This guide
should help you get up and running with Wasmtime and Cranelift development. But
first, make sure you've read the [Code of Conduct](./contributing-coc.html)!

Wasmtime and Cranelift are very ambitious projects with many goals, and while
we're confident we can achieve some of them, we see many opportunities for
people to get involved and help us achieve even more.

## Join Our Chat

We chat about Wasmtime and Cranelift development on Zulip &mdash; [join
us!](https://bytecodealliance.zulipchat.com/). You can also join specific
streams:

* [#wasmtime](https://bytecodealliance.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/217126-wasmtime)
* [#cranelift](https://bytecodealliance.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/217117-cranelift)

If you're having trouble building Wasmtime or Cranelift, aren't sure why a test
is failing, or have any other questions, feel free to ask on Zulip. Not
everything we hope to do with these projects is reflected in the code or
documentation yet, so if you see things that seem missing or that don't make
sense, or even that just don't work the way you expect them to, we're also
interested to hear about that!

As always, you're more than welcome to [open an
issue](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/issues/new) too!

## Finding Something to Hack On

If you're looking for something to do, these are great places to start:

* [Issues labeled "good first
  issue"](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/labels/good%20first%20issue)
  &mdash; these issues tend to be simple, what needs to be done is well known,
  and are good for new contributors to tackle. The goal is to learn Wasmtime's
  development workflow and make sure that you can build and test Wasmtime.

* [Issues labeled "help
  wanted"](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/labels/help%20wanted)
  &mdash; these are issues that we need a little help with!

If you're unsure if an issue is a good fit for you or not, feel free to ask in a
comment on the issue, or in chat.

### Mentoring

We're happy to mentor people, whether you're learning Rust, learning about
compiler backends, learning about machine code, learning about wasm, learning
about how Cranelift does things, or all together at once.

We categorize issues in the issue tracker using a tag scheme inspired by
[Rust's issue tags]. For example, the [E-easy] marks good beginner issues,
and [E-rust] marks issues which likely require some familiarity with Rust,
though not necessarily Cranelift-specific or even compiler-specific
experience. [E-compiler-easy] marks issues good for beginners who have
some familiarity with compilers, or are interested in gaining some :-).

See also the [full list of Cranelift labels].

Also, we encourage people to just look around and find things they're
interested in. This a good time to get involved, as there aren't a lot of
things set in stone yet.

[Rust's issue tags]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#issue-triage
[E-easy]: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/labels/cranelift%3AE-easy
[E-rust]: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/labels/cranelift%3AE-rust
[E-compiler-easy]: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/labels/cranelift%3AE-compiler-easy
[full list of Cranelift labels]: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/labels?q=cranelift

Commit message:

Remove meetings agendas/minutes (moved to separate repo). (#4388)
This PR removes all minutes and agendas in `meetings/`. These were
previously hosted in this repository, but we found that it makes things
somewhat more complex with respect to CI configuration and merge
permissions to have both small, CI-less changes to the text in
`meetings/` as well as changes to everything else in one repository.

The minutes and agendas have been split out into the repository at
https://github.com/bytecodealliance/meetings/, with all history
preserved. Future agenda additions and minutes contributions should go
there as PRs.

Finally, this PR adds a small note to our "Contributing" doc to note the
existence of the meetings and invite folks to ask to join if interested.

docs/contributing.md, after:

# Contributing

We're excited to work on Wasmtime and/or Cranelift together with you! This guide
should help you get up and running with Wasmtime and Cranelift development. But
first, make sure you've read the [Code of Conduct](./contributing-coc.html)!

Wasmtime and Cranelift are very ambitious projects with many goals, and while
we're confident we can achieve some of them, we see many opportunities for
people to get involved and help us achieve even more.

## Join Our Chat

We chat about Wasmtime and Cranelift development on Zulip &mdash; [join
us!](https://bytecodealliance.zulipchat.com/). You can also join specific
streams:

* [#wasmtime](https://bytecodealliance.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/217126-wasmtime)
* [#cranelift](https://bytecodealliance.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/217117-cranelift)

If you're having trouble building Wasmtime or Cranelift, aren't sure why a test
is failing, or have any other questions, feel free to ask on Zulip. Not
everything we hope to do with these projects is reflected in the code or
documentation yet, so if you see things that seem missing or that don't make
sense, or even that just don't work the way you expect them to, we're also
interested to hear about that!

As always, you're more than welcome to [open an
issue](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/issues/new) too!

Finally, we have biweekly project meetings, hosted on Zoom, for Wasmtime and
Cranelift. For more information, see our [meetings agendas/minutes
repository](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/meetings). Please feel free to
contact us via Zulip if you're interested in joining!

## Finding Something to Hack On

If you're looking for something to do, these are great places to start:

* [Issues labeled "good first
  issue"](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/labels/good%20first%20issue)
  &mdash; these issues tend to be simple, what needs to be done is well known,
  and are good for new contributors to tackle. The goal is to learn Wasmtime's
  development workflow and make sure that you can build and test Wasmtime.

* [Issues labeled "help
  wanted"](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/labels/help%20wanted)
  &mdash; these are issues that we need a little help with!

If you're unsure if an issue is a good fit for you or not, feel free to ask in a
comment on the issue, or in chat.

### Mentoring

We're happy to mentor people, whether you're learning Rust, learning about
compiler backends, learning about machine code, learning about wasm, learning
about how Cranelift does things, or all together at once.

We categorize issues in the issue tracker using a tag scheme inspired by
[Rust's issue tags]. For example, the [E-easy] marks good beginner issues,
and [E-rust] marks issues which likely require some familiarity with Rust,
though not necessarily Cranelift-specific or even compiler-specific
experience. [E-compiler-easy] marks issues good for beginners who have
some familiarity with compilers, or are interested in gaining some :-).

See also the [full list of Cranelift labels].

Also, we encourage people to just look around and find things they're
interested in. This a good time to get involved, as there aren't a lot of
things set in stone yet.

[Rust's issue tags]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#issue-triage
[E-easy]: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/labels/cranelift%3AE-easy
[E-rust]: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/labels/cranelift%3AE-rust
[E-compiler-easy]: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/labels/cranelift%3AE-compiler-easy
[full list of Cranelift labels]: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/labels?q=cranelift
