docs/embed-rust.md, before:

# Embedding Wasmtime in Rust

This document shows an example of how to embed Wasmtime using the [Rust
API][apidoc] to execute a simple wasm program. Be sure to also check out the
[full API documentation][apidoc] for a full listing of what the [`wasmtime`
crate][crate] has to offer.

[apidoc]: https://bytecodealliance.github.io/wasmtime/api/wasmtime/
[wasmtime]: https://crates.io/crates/wasmtime

## Creating the WebAssembly to execute

Creation of a WebAssembly file is generally covered by the [Writing
WebAssembly chapter](./wasm.md), so we'll just assume that you've already got a
wasm file on hand for the rest of this tutorial. To make things simple we'll
also just assume you've got a `hello.wat` file which looks like this:

```wat
(module
  (func (export "answer") (result i32)
     i32.const 42
  )
)
```

Here we're just exporting one function which returns an integer that we'll read
from Rust.

## Hello, World!

First up let's create a rust project

```sh
$ cargo new --bin wasmtime_hello
$ cd wasmtime_hello
```

Next you'll want to add `hello.wat` to the root of your project.

We will be using the `wasmtime` crate to run the wasm file, so next up we need a
dependency in `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
wasmtime = "0.12.0"
```

Next up let's write the code that we need to execute this wasm file. The
simplest version of this looks like so:

```rust,no_run
# extern crate wasmtime;
use std::error::Error;
use wasmtime::*;

fn main() -> Result<(), Box<dyn Error>> {
    // A `Store` is a sort of "global object" in a sense, but for now it suffices
    // to say that it's generally passed to most constructors.
    let store = Store::default();

# if false {
    // We start off by creating a `Module` which represents a compiled form
    // of our input wasm module. In this case it'll be JIT-compiled after
    // we parse the text format.
    let module = Module::from_file(&store, "hello.wat")?;
# }
# let module = Module::new(&store, r#"(module (func (export "answer") (result i32) i32.const 42))"#)?;

    // After we have a compiled `Module` we can then instantiate it, creating
    // an `Instance` which we can actually poke at functions on.
    let instance = Instance::new(&module, &[])?;

    // The `Instance` gives us access to various exported functions and items,
    // which we access here to pull out our `answer` exported function and
    // run it.
    let answer = instance.get_export("answer")
        .expect("export named `answer` not found")
        .func()
        .expect("export `answer` was not a function");

    // There's a few ways we can call the `answer` `Func` value. The easiest
    // is to statically assert its signature with `get0` (in this case asserting
    // it takes no arguments and returns one i32) and then call it.
    let answer = answer.get0::<i32>()?;

    // And finally we can call our function! Note that the error propagation
    // with `?` is done to handle the case where the wasm function traps.
    let result = answer()?;
    println!("Answer: {:?}", result);
    Ok(())
}
```

We can build and execute our example with `cargo run`. Note that by depending on
`wasmtime` you're depending on a JIT compiler, so it may take a moment to build
all of its dependencies:

```sh
$ cargo run
  Compiling ...
  ...
   Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 42.32s
    Running `wasmtime_hello/target/debug/wasmtime_hello`
Answer: 42
```

and there we go! We've now executed our first WebAssembly in `wasmtime` and
gotten the result back.

## Importing Host Functionality

What we've just seen is a pretty small example of how to call a wasm function
and take a look at the result. Most interesting wasm modules, however, are going
to import some functions to do something a bit more interesting. For that you'll
need to provide imported functions from Rust for wasm to call!

Let's take a look at a wasm module which imports a logging function as well as
some simple arithmetic from the environment.

```wat
(module
  (import "" "log" (func $log (param i32)))
  (import "" "double" (func $double (param i32) (result i32)))
  (func (export "run") (result i32)
    i32.const 0
    call $log
    i32.const 1
    call $log
    i32.const 2
    call $double
    call $log
  )
)
```

This wasm module will call our `"log"` import a few times and then also call the
`"double"` import. We can compile and instantiate this module with code that
looks like this:

```rust,no_run
# extern crate wasmtime;
# use std::error::Error;
# use wasmtime::*;
# fn main() -> Result<(), Box<dyn Error>> {
# let store = Store::default();
# let module = Module::new(&store, r#"
# (module
# (import "" "log" (func $log (param i32)))
# (import "" "double" (func $double (param i32) (result i32))))"#)?;
// First we can create our `log` function, which will simply print out the
// parameter it receives.
let log = Func::wrap(&store, |param: i32| {
    println!("log: {}", param);
});

// Next we can create our double function which doubles the input it receives.
let double = Func::wrap(&store, |param: i32| param * 2);

// When instantiating the module we now need to provide the imports to the
// instantiation process. This is the second slice argument, where each
// entry in the slice must line up with the imports in the module.
let instance = Instance::new(&module, &[log.into(), double.into()])?;
# Ok(())
# }
```

Note that there's a number of ways to define a `Func`, be sure to [consult its
documentation][`Func`] for other ways to create a host-defined function.

[`Func`]: https://bytecodealliance.github.io/wasmtime/api/wasmtime/struct.Func.html

Commit message:

Add examples of linking and WASI (#1369)
* Add examples of linking and WASI

This commit adds two example programs, one for linking two modules
together and one for instantiating WASI. The linkage example
additionally uses WASI to get some meaningful output at this time.

cc #1272

* Add examples to the book as well

* More links!

* Ignore examples from rustdoc testsing

* More example updates

* More ignored

docs/embed-rust.md, after:

# Embedding Wasmtime in Rust

This document shows an example of how to embed Wasmtime using the [Rust
API][apidoc] to execute a simple wasm program. Be sure to also check out the
[full API documentation][apidoc] for a full listing of what the [`wasmtime`
crate][wasmtime] has to offer and the [book examples for
Rust](./examples-rust-embed.md) for more information.

[apidoc]: https://bytecodealliance.github.io/wasmtime/api/wasmtime/
[wasmtime]: https://crates.io/crates/wasmtime

## Creating the WebAssembly to execute

Creation of a WebAssembly file is generally covered by the [Writing
WebAssembly chapter](./wasm.md), so we'll just assume that you've already got a
wasm file on hand for the rest of this tutorial. To make things simple we'll
also just assume you've got a `hello.wat` file which looks like this:

```wat
(module
  (func (export "answer") (result i32)
     i32.const 42
  )
)
```

Here we're just exporting one function which returns an integer that we'll read
from Rust.

## Hello, World!

First up let's create a rust project

```sh
$ cargo new --bin wasmtime_hello
$ cd wasmtime_hello
```

Next you'll want to add `hello.wat` to the root of your project.

We will be using the `wasmtime` crate to run the wasm file, so next up we need a
dependency in `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
wasmtime = "0.12.0"
```

Next up let's write the code that we need to execute this wasm file. The
simplest version of this looks like so:

```rust,no_run
# extern crate wasmtime;
use std::error::Error;
use wasmtime::*;

fn main() -> Result<(), Box<dyn Error>> {
    // A `Store` is a sort of "global object" in a sense, but for now it suffices
    // to say that it's generally passed to most constructors.
    let store = Store::default();

# if false {
    // We start off by creating a `Module` which represents a compiled form
    // of our input wasm module. In this case it'll be JIT-compiled after
    // we parse the text format.
    let module = Module::from_file(&store, "hello.wat")?;
# }
# let module = Module::new(&store, r#"(module (func (export "answer") (result i32) i32.const 42))"#)?;

    // After we have a compiled `Module` we can then instantiate it, creating
    // an `Instance` which we can actually poke at functions on.
    let instance = Instance::new(&module, &[])?;

    // The `Instance` gives us access to various exported functions and items,
    // which we access here to pull out our `answer` exported function and
    // run it.
    let answer = instance.get_export("answer")
        .expect("export named `answer` not found")
        .func()
        .expect("export `answer` was not a function");

    // There's a few ways we can call the `answer` `Func` value. The easiest
    // is to statically assert its signature with `get0` (in this case asserting
    // it takes no arguments and returns one i32) and then call it.
    let answer = answer.get0::<i32>()?;

    // And finally we can call our function! Note that the error propagation
    // with `?` is done to handle the case where the wasm function traps.
    let result = answer()?;
    println!("Answer: {:?}", result);
    Ok(())
}
```

We can build and execute our example with `cargo run`. Note that by depending on
`wasmtime` you're depending on a JIT compiler, so it may take a moment to build
all of its dependencies:

```sh
$ cargo run
  Compiling ...
  ...
   Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 42.32s
    Running `wasmtime_hello/target/debug/wasmtime_hello`
Answer: 42
```

and there we go! We've now executed our first WebAssembly in `wasmtime` and
gotten the result back.

## Importing Host Functionality

What we've just seen is a pretty small example of how to call a wasm function
and take a look at the result. Most interesting wasm modules, however, are going
to import some functions to do something a bit more interesting. For that you'll
need to provide imported functions from Rust for wasm to call!

Let's take a look at a wasm module which imports a logging function as well as
some simple arithmetic from the environment.

```wat
(module
  (import "" "log" (func $log (param i32)))
  (import "" "double" (func $double (param i32) (result i32)))
  (func (export "run") (result i32)
    i32.const 0
    call $log
    i32.const 1
    call $log
    i32.const 2
    call $double
    call $log
  )
)
```

This wasm module will call our `"log"` import a few times and then also call the
`"double"` import. We can compile and instantiate this module with code that
looks like this:

```rust,no_run
# extern crate wasmtime;
# use std::error::Error;
# use wasmtime::*;
# fn main() -> Result<(), Box<dyn Error>> {
# let store = Store::default();
# let module = Module::new(&store, r#"
# (module
# (import "" "log" (func $log (param i32)))
# (import "" "double" (func $double (param i32) (result i32))))"#)?;
// First we can create our `log` function, which will simply print out the
// parameter it receives.
let log = Func::wrap(&store, |param: i32| {
    println!("log: {}", param);
});

// Next we can create our double function which doubles the input it receives.
let double = Func::wrap(&store, |param: i32| param * 2);

// When instantiating the module we now need to provide the imports to the
// instantiation process. This is the second slice argument, where each
// entry in the slice must line up with the imports in the module.
let instance = Instance::new(&module, &[log.into(), double.into()])?;
# Ok(())
# }
```

Note that there's a number of ways to define a `Func`, be sure to [consult its
documentation][`Func`] for other ways to create a host-defined function.

[`Func`]: https://bytecodealliance.github.io/wasmtime/api/wasmtime/struct.Func.html
